“Absolutely not.”
“You let Professor Dumbledore in. . . .”
“Well, of course, that was the headmaster, quite different. You need rest.”
“I am resting, look, lying down and everything. Oh, go on, Madam
Pomfrey . . .”
“Oh, very well,” she said. “But five minutes only.”
And she let Ron and Hermione in.
“Harry!”
Hermione looked ready to fling her arms around him again, but Harry was
glad she held herself in as his head was still very sore.
“Oh, Harry, we were sure you were going to — Dumbledore was so
worried —”
“The whole school’s talking about it,” said Ron. “What really happened?”
It was one of those rare occasions when the true story is even more strange
and exciting than the wild rumors. Harry told them everything: Quirrell; the
mirror; the Stone; and Voldemort. Ron and Hermione were a very good
audience; they gasped in all the right places, and when Harry told them what
was under Quirrell’s turban, Hermione screamed out loud.
“So the Stone’s gone?” said Ron finally. “Flamel’s just going to die?”
“That’s what I said, but Dumbledore thinks that — what was it? —‘to the
well-organized mind, death is but the next great adventure.’”
“I always said he was off his rocker,” said Ron, looking quite impressed at
how crazy his hero was.
“So what happened to you two?” said Harry.
“Well, I got back all right,” said Hermione. “I brought Ron round — that
took a while — and we were dashing up to the owlery to contact Dumbledore
when we met him in the entrance hall — he already knew — he just said,
‘Harry’s gone after him, hasn’t he?’ and hurtled off to the third floor.”
“D’you think he meant you to do it?” said Ron. “Sending you your father’s
Cloak and everything?”
“Well,” Hermione exploded, “if he did — I mean to say — that’s terrible
— you could have been killed.”
“No, it isn’t,” said Harry thoughtfully. “He’s a funny man, Dumbledore. I
think he sort of wanted to give me a chance. I think he knows more or less
everything that goes on here, you know. I reckon he had a pretty good idea we
were going to try, and instead of stopping us, he just taught us enough to help.
I don’t think it was an accident he let me find out how the mirror worked. It’s
almost like he thought I had the right to face Voldemort if I could. . . .”
“Yeah, Dumbledore’s off his rocker, all right,” said Ron proudly. “Listen,
you’ve got to be up for the end-of-year feast tomorrow. The points are all in
and Slytherin won, of course — you missed the last Quidditch match, we
were steamrollered by Ravenclaw without you — but the food’ll be good.”
At that moment, Madam Pomfrey bustled over.
“You’ve had nearly fifteen minutes, now OUT,” she said firmly.
After a good night’s sleep, Harry felt nearly back to normal.
“I want to go to the feast,” he told Madam Pomfrey as she straightened his
many candy boxes. “I can, can’t I?”
“Professor Dumbledore says you are to be allowed to go,” she said sniffily,
as though in her opinion Professor Dumbledore didn’t realize how risky feasts
could be. “And you have another visitor.”
“Oh, good,” said Harry. “Who is it?”
Hagrid sidled through the door as he spoke. As usual when he was indoors,
Hagrid looked too big to be allowed. He sat down next to Harry, took one
look at him, and burst into tears.
“It’s — all — my — ruddy — fault!” he sobbed, his face in his hands. “I
told the evil git how ter get past Fluffy! I told him! It was the only thing he
didn’t know, an’ I told him! Yeh could’ve died! All fer a dragon egg! I’ll
never drink again! I should be chucked out an’ made ter live as a Muggle!”
“Hagrid!” said Harry, shocked to see Hagrid shaking with grief and
remorse, great tears leaking down into his beard. “Hagrid, he’d have found
out somehow, this is Voldemort we’re talking about, he’d have found out even
if you hadn’t told him.”
“Yeh could’ve died!” sobbed Hagrid. “An’ don’ say the name!”
“VOLDEMORT!” Harry bellowed, and Hagrid was so shocked, he stopped
crying. “I’ve met him and I’m calling him by his name. Please cheer up,
Hagrid, we saved the Stone, it’s gone, he can’t use it. Have a Chocolate Frog,
I’ve got loads. . . .”
Hagrid wiped his nose on the back of his hand and said, “That reminds me.
I’ve got yeh a present.”
“It’s not a stoat sandwich, is it?” said Harry anxiously, and at last Hagrid
gave a weak chuckle.
“Nah. Dumbledore gave me the day off yesterday ter fix it. ’Course, he
shoulda sacked me instead — anyway, got yeh this . . .”
It seemed to be a handsome, leather-covered book. Harry opened it
curiously. It was full of wizard photographs. Smiling and waving at him from
every page were his mother and father.
“Sent owls off ter all yer parents’ old school friends, askin’ fer photos . . .
knew yeh didn’ have any . . . d’yeh like it?”
Harry couldn’t speak, but Hagrid understood.
Harry made his way down to the end-of-year feast alone that night. He had
been held up by Madam Pomfrey’s fussing about, insisting on giving him one
last checkup, so the Great Hall was already full. It was decked out in the
Slytherin colors of green and silver to celebrate Slytherin’s winning the House
Cup for the seventh year in a row. A huge banner showing the Slytherin
serpent covered the wall behind the High Table.
When Harry walked in there was a sudden hush, and then everybody
started talking loudly at once. He slipped into a seat between Ron and
Hermione at the Gryffindor table and tried to ignore the fact that people were
standing up to look at him.
Fortunately, Dumbledore arrived moments later. The babble died away.
“Another year gone!” Dumbledore said cheerfully. “And I must trouble you
with an old man’s wheezing waffle before we sink our teeth into our delicious
feast. What a year it has been! Hopefully your heads are all a little fuller than
they were . . . you have the whole summer ahead to get them nice and empty
before next year starts. . . .
“Now, as I understand it, the House Cup here needs awarding, and the
points stand thus: In fourth place, Gryffindor, with three hundred and twelve
points; in third, Hufflepuff, with three hundred and fifty-two; Ravenclaw has
four hundred and twenty-six and Slytherin, four hundred and seventy-two.”
A storm of cheering and stamping broke out from the Slytherin table. Harry
could see Draco Malfoy banging his goblet on the table. It was a sickening
sight.
“Yes, yes, well done, Slytherin,” said Dumbledore. “However, recent
events must be taken into account.”
The room went very still. The Slytherins’ smiles faded a little.
“Ahem,” said Dumbledore. “I have a few last-minute points to dish out. Let
me see. Yes . . .
“First — to Mr. Ronald Weasley . . .”
Ron went purple in the face; he looked like a radish with a bad sunburn.
“. . . for the best-played game of chess Hogwarts has seen in many years, I
award Gryffindor House fifty points.”
Gryffindor cheers nearly raised the bewitched ceiling; the stars overhead
seemed to quiver. Percy could be heard telling the other prefects, “My
brother, you know! My youngest brother! Got past McGonagall’s giant chess
set!”
At last there was silence again.
“Second — to Miss Hermione Granger . . . for the use of cool logic in the
face of fire, I award Gryffindor House fifty points.”
Hermione buried her face in her arms; Harry strongly suspected she had
burst into tears. Gryffindors up and down the table were beside themselves —
they were a hundred points up.
“Third — to Mr. Harry Potter . . .” said Dumbledore. The room went
deadly quiet. “. . . for pure nerve and outstanding courage, I award Gryffindor
House sixty points.”
The din was deafening. Those who could add up while yelling themselves
hoarse knew that Gryffindor now had four hundred and seventy-two points —
exactly the same as Slytherin. They had tied for the House Cup — if only
Dumbledore had given Harry just one more point.
Dumbledore raised his hand. The room gradually fell silent.
“There are all kinds of courage,” said Dumbledore, smiling. “It takes a
great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies, but just as much to stand up
to our friends. I therefore award ten points to Mr. Neville Longbottom.”
Someone standing outside the Great Hall might well have thought some
sort of explosion had taken place, so loud was the noise that erupted from the
Gryffindor table. Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood up to yell and cheer as
Neville, white with shock, disappeared under a pile of people hugging him.
He had never won so much as a point for Gryffindor before. Harry, still
cheering, nudged Ron in the ribs and pointed at Malfoy, who couldn’t have
looked more stunned and horrified if he’d just had the Body-Bind Curse put
on him.
“Which means,” Dumbledore called over the storm of applause, for even
Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff were celebrating the downfall of Slytherin, “we
need a little change of decoration.”
He clapped his hands. In an instant, the green hangings became scarlet and
the silver became gold; the huge Slytherin serpent vanished and a towering
Gryffindor lion took its place. Snape was shaking Professor McGonagall’s
hand, with a horrible, forced smile. He caught Harry’s eye and Harry knew at
once that Snape’s feelings toward him hadn’t changed one jot. This didn’t
worry Harry. It seemed as though life would be back to normal next year, or
as normal as it ever was at Hogwarts.
It was the best evening of Harry’s life, better than winning at Quidditch, or
Christmas, or knocking out mountain trolls . . . he would never, ever forget
tonight.
Harry had almost forgotten that the exam results were still to come, but come
they did. To their great surprise, both he and Ron passed with good marks;
Hermione, of course, had the best grades of the first years. Even Neville
scraped through, his good Herbology mark making up for his abysmal Potions
one. They had hoped that Goyle, who was almost as stupid as he was mean,
might be thrown out, but he had passed, too. It was a shame, but as Ron said,
you couldn’t have everything in life.
And suddenly, their wardrobes were empty, their trunks were packed,
Neville’s toad was found lurking in a corner of the toilets; notes were handed
out to all students, warning them not to use magic over the holidays (“I
always hope they’ll forget to give us these,” said Fred Weasley sadly); Hagrid
was there to take them down to the fleet of boats that sailed across the lake;
they were boarding the Hogwarts Express; talking and laughing as the
countryside became greener and tidier; eating Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor
Beans as they sped past Muggle towns; pulling off their wizard robes and
putting on jackets and coats; pulling into platform nine and three-quarters at
King’s Cross station.
It took quite a while for them all to get off the platform. A wizened old
guard was up by the ticket barrier, letting them go through the gate in twos
and threes so they didn’t attract attention by all bursting out of a solid wall at
once and alarming the Muggles.
“You must come and stay this summer,” said Ron, “both of you — I’ll send
you an owl.”
“Thanks,” said Harry, “I’ll need something to look forward to.”
People jostled them as they moved forward toward the gateway back to the
Muggle world. Some of them called:
“Bye, Harry!”
“See you, Potter!”
“Still famous,” said Ron, grinning at him.
“Not where I’m going, I promise you,” said Harry.
He, Ron, and Hermione passed through the gateway together.
“There he is, Mum, there he is, look!”
It was Ginny Weasley, Ron’s younger sister, but she wasn’t pointing at
Ron.
“Harry Potter!” she squealed. “Look, Mum! I can see —”
“Be quiet, Ginny, and it’s rude to point.”
Mrs. Weasley smiled down at them.
“Busy year?” she said.
“Very,” said Harry. “Thanks for the fudge and the sweater, Mrs. Weasley.”
“Oh, it was nothing, dear.”
“Ready, are you?”
It was Uncle Vernon, still purple-faced, still mustached, still looking
furious at the nerve of Harry, carrying an owl in a cage in a station full of
ordinary people. Behind him stood Aunt Petunia and Dudley, looking terrified
at the very sight of Harry.
“You must be Harry’s family!” said Mrs. Weasley.
“In a manner of speaking,” said Uncle Vernon. “Hurry up, boy, we haven’t
got all day.” He walked away.
Harry hung back for a last word with Ron and Hermione.
“See you over the summer, then.”
“Hope you have — er — a good holiday,” said Hermione, looking
uncertainly after Uncle Vernon, shocked that anyone could be so unpleasant.
“Oh, I will,” said Harry, and they were surprised at the grin that was
spreading over his face. “They don’t know we’re not allowed to use magic at
home. I’m going to have a lot of fun with Dudley this summer